RTCDtlsTransport: getRemoteCertificates() docs (#44543)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/api/rtcdtlstransport/getremotecertificates/index.md

---
title: "RTCDtlsTransport: getRemoteCertificates() method"
short-title: getRemoteCertificates()
slug: Web/API/RTCDtlsTransport/getRemoteCertificates
page-type: web-api-instance-method
browser-compat: api.RTCDtlsTransport.getRemoteCertificates
---

{{APIRef("WebRTC")}}

> The **`getRemoteCertificates()`** method of the {{domxref("RTCDtlsTransport")}} interface returns the certificates of the remote peer of the DTLS connection.

Author: ```suggestion
The **`getRemoteCertificates()`** method of the {{domxref("RTCDtlsTransport")}} interface returns the certificates chain of the remote peer of the DTLS connection.
```

## Syntax

```js-nolint
getRemoteCertificates()
```

### Parameters

None.

### Return value

> An array of {{jsxref("ArrayBuffer")}} objects, each containing a DER-encoded X.509 certificate of the remote peer.

Reviewer: Returns an array of DER-encoded certificates from the remote peer's DTLS certificate chain.

maybe something like this? I do want to say that it's a the peer certificate chain.

Author: The format is enforced and we mention these belong to the remote peer above. We can say it again though. 

```suggestion
An array of {{jsxref("ArrayBuffer")}} objects that represents the remote peer's certificate chain.
Each object contains a DER-encoded X.509 certificate.
```

For [`new`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/RTCDtlsTransport/state#new) connections, this is an empty array.
It is populated with the certificates from the remote peer when the state of the transport changes to [`connected`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/RTCDtlsTransport/state#connected).

### Exceptions

None

## Description

WebRTC media and data channels are secured using DTLS (Datagram Transport Layer Security).

> The protocol automatically uses certificates to ensure that the communicating remote peer is the same entity that negotiated the connection via the signaling server.

Reviewer: During signaling, each endpoint advertises the fingerprint of the DTLS certificate it will present.
During the DTLS handshake, the user agent verifies that the certificate presented by the remote peer matches a fingerprint in the negotiated SDP.

I believe? Let's also ask Byron?

Author: Yes, that matches everything else I've read. I'm going to accept this. @Frosne Which Byron should we ping?

```suggestion
During signaling, each endpoint advertises the fingerprint of the DTLS certificate it will present.
During the DTLS handshake, the user agent verifies that the certificate presented by the remote peer matches the fingerprint in the negotiated SDP.
```

This is done by checking that the certificate presented during the DTLS handshake matches the `a=fingerprint` provided in the SDP.

> DTLS guarantees the connected peer is the one you've been negotiating with, because only that peer has the private key matching the certificate whose fingerprint was exchanged during signaling.

Reviewer: Ok, this is missing a small bit: 

WebRTC typically uses self-signed DTLS certificates rather than certificates issued by a certificate authority.
This means the certificate proves continuity with the key advertised during signaling, but it does not by itself identify the person, service, or device at the other end.

Author: Thanks, I integrated that below in the "However" line https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/44543/changes#r3479085924

However, it doesn't tell you who this remote peer is: DTLS can't help you if you initially connected to a compromised signaling server, or to some unexpected peer.
Establishing the identity of the remote peer usually requires an out-of-band mechanism such as comparing certificate fingerprints verbally over a phone call, or using a separate authenticated channel.

The `getRemoteCertificates()` method allows you to get the remote certificates used by DTLS and use them for _application-layer_ authentication of the remote peer.

> The way this works is that each peer must persist their own DTLS certificate across sessions, rather than generating a new one each time.

Reviewer: For fingerprint continuity across multiple connections, the peer must present a stable certificate rather than generating a new certificate for each connection. ?

Author: Yes, that was a bit awkward. I used a slight variation.

```suggestion
For fingerprint continuity, each peer must use the same certificate across sessions, rather than generating a new one each time they connect."
```

After connecting to the remote peer, you'd exchange information out-of-band to verify that it is the intended party, and use `getRemoteCertificates()` to get its certificates.
When you subsequently connect to that remote peer, you'd only allow communication if it has exactly the same certificate fingerprints.
There is still a window for a person-in-the-middle attack, but it only exists for the very first connection between peers.

> Note that `getRemoteCertificates()` returns raw DER-encoded X.509 certificates as `ArrayBuffer` objects. DER (Distinguished Encoding Rules) is the binary serialization format used for X.509 certificates in TLS and DTLS. Unlike {{domxref("RTCCertificate")}}, these buffers do not expose certificate fields (fingerprint, subject, validity period, and so on) directly. To work with them you must process the raw bytes: you can hash the buffer with {{domxref("SubtleCrypto.digest()")}} to compute a fingerprint (as shown in the example below), or pass it to an X.509 parsing library to inspect individual fields.

Reviewer: RTCCertificate exposes validity period? I am not sure

Author: Good catch. It exposes [expires](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/RTCCertificate/expires) (expriation date) and fingerprints only. No reason not to say that.

```suggestion
Note that `getRemoteCertificates()` returns raw DER-encoded X.509 certificates as `ArrayBuffer` objects.
DER (Distinguished Encoding Rules) is the binary serialization format used for X.509 certificates in TLS and DTLS.
Unlike {{domxref("RTCCertificate")}}, these buffers do not expose fingerprints and expiration date directly.
To work with them you must process the raw bytes: you can hash the buffer with {{domxref("SubtleCrypto.digest()")}} to compute a fingerprint (as shown in the example below), or pass it to an X.509 parsing library to inspect individual fields.
```

```js
async function getRemoteFingerprint(dtlsTransport) {
  const certs = dtlsTransport.getRemoteCertificates();
  if (certs.length === 0) {
    return null;
  }

  // Hash the raw DER-encoded certificate with SHA-256
  const digest = await crypto.subtle.digest("SHA-256", certs[0]);

  // Format as colon-separated hex, matching the SDP a=fingerprint convention
  return Array.from(new Uint8Array(digest))
    .map((b) => b.toString(16).padStart(2, "0"))
    .join(":");
}

// Call once DTLS handshake is complete
pc.addEventListener("connectionstatechange", async () => {
  if (pc.connectionState === "connected") {
    const sender = pc.getSenders()[0];
    if (!sender?.transport) return;

    const fingerprint = await getRemoteFingerprint(sender.transport);
    if (!fingerprint) return;
    const stored = localStorage.getItem("remote-peer-fingerprint");

    if (!stored) {
      localStorage.setItem("remote-peer-fingerprint", fingerprint);
    } else if (stored !== fingerprint) {
      console.error("Certificate mismatch — closing connection");
      pc.close();
    }
  }
});
```

## Specifications

{{Specifications}}

## Browser compatibility

{{Compat}}

## See also

> - [WebRTC API](/en-US/docs/Web/API/WebRTC_API)

Reviewer: maybe see also RTCPeerConnection.generateCertificate()?

Author: Good idea.

```suggestion
- {{domxref("RTCPeerConnection.generateCertificate()")}}
- [WebRTC API](/en-US/docs/Web/API/WebRTC_API)
```

---
title: "RTCDtlsTransport: getRemoteCertificates() method"
short-title: getRemoteCertificates()
slug: Web/API/RTCDtlsTransport/getRemoteCertificates
page-type: web-api-instance-method
browser-compat: api.RTCDtlsTransport.getRemoteCertificates
---

{{APIRef("WebRTC")}}

> The **`getRemoteCertificates()`** method of the {{domxref("RTCDtlsTransport")}} interface returns the certificates chain of the remote peer of the DTLS connection.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The **`getRemoteCertificates()`** method of the {{domxref("RTCDtlsTransport")}} interface returns the certificate chain of the remote peer of the DTLS connection.
```

## Syntax

```js-nolint
getRemoteCertificates()
```

### Parameters

None.

### Return value

> An array of {{jsxref("ArrayBuffer")}} objects that represents the remote peer's certificate chain.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An array of {{jsxref("ArrayBuffer")}} objects that represent the remote peer's certificate chain.
```

> Each object contains a DER-encoded X.509 certificate.

Reviewer 2: expansions?

Author: I don't think so in this case.

For [`new`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/RTCDtlsTransport/state#new) connections, this is an empty array.
It is populated with the certificates from the remote peer when the state of the transport changes to [`connected`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/RTCDtlsTransport/state#connected).

### Exceptions

None

## Description

> WebRTC media and data channels are secured using DTLS (Datagram Transport Layer Security).

Reviewer 2: Also consider expanding DTLS on line 11 where it first appears
```suggestion
WebRTC media and data channels are secured using Datagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS).
```

Author: Thanks. I did, and I think I'll keep it here. I prefer the brevity of the top line to expanding the definition there being technically correct.

During signaling, each endpoint advertises the fingerprint of the DTLS certificate it will present.

> During the DTLS handshake, the user agent verifies that the certificate presented by the remote peer matches the fingerprint in the negotiated SDP.

Reviewer 2: Expand SDP?
```suggestion
During the DTLS handshake, the browser verifies that the certificate presented by the remote peer matches the fingerprint in the negotiated SDP.
```

> This is done by checking that the certificate presented during the DTLS handshake matches the `a=fingerprint` provided in the SDP.

Author: ```suggestion
```

DTLS guarantees the connected peer is the one you've been negotiating with, because only that peer has the private key matching the certificate whose fingerprint was exchanged during signaling.

> However, it doesn't tell you who this remote peer is: DTLS can't help you if you initially connected to a compromised signaling server, or to some unexpected peer.

Author: Addresses  https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/44543/changes#r3460763291

```suggestion
However, WebRTC uses self-signed certificates rather than certificates issued by a certificate authority, so the certificate does not identify the person, service, or device at the other end.
```

> However, WebRTC uses self-signed certificates rather than certificates issued by a certificate authority, so the certificate does not identify the person, service, or device at the other end.

Author: ```suggestion
However, since WebRTC uses self-signed certificates rather than certificates issued by a certificate authority, the certificate does not identify the person, service, or device at the other end.
```

> However, since WebRTC uses self-signed certificates rather than certificates issued by a certificate authority, the certificate does not identify the person, service, or device at the other end.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
However, since WebRTC uses self-signed certificates rather than those issued by a certificate authority, the certificate does not identify the person, service, or device at the other end.
```

Establishing the identity of the remote peer usually requires an out-of-band mechanism such as comparing certificate fingerprints verbally over a phone call, or using a separate authenticated channel.

The `getRemoteCertificates()` method allows you to get the remote certificates used by DTLS and use them for _application-layer_ authentication of the remote peer.

> For fingerprint continuity, each peer must use the same certificate across sessions, rather than generating a new one each time they connect."

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For fingerprint continuity, each peer must use the same certificate across sessions, rather than generating a new one each time they connect.
```

After connecting to the remote peer, you'd exchange information out-of-band to verify that it is the intended party, and use `getRemoteCertificates()` to get its certificates.
When you subsequently connect to that remote peer, you'd only allow communication if it has exactly the same certificate fingerprints.
There is still a window for a person-in-the-middle attack, but it only exists for the very first connection between peers.

Note that `getRemoteCertificates()` returns raw DER-encoded X.509 certificates as `ArrayBuffer` objects.

> DER (Distinguished Encoding Rules) is the binary serialization format used for X.509 certificates in TLS and DTLS.

Reviewer 2: DER expansion can be moved to its first occurrence on the page
```suggestion
Distinguished Encoding Rules (DER) is the binary serialization format used for X.509 certificates in TLS and DTLS.
```

Author: Thanks. Again, I prefer to expand here. In this case its because DER-encoded makes sense but Distinguished Encoding Rules (DER) encoded looks messy. Feels "right" to have the expansion in the description.

> Unlike {{domxref("RTCCertificate")}}, these buffers do not expose fingerprints and expiration date directly.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Unlike {{domxref("RTCCertificate")}}, these buffers do not expose fingerprints and expiration dates directly.
```

> To work with them you must process the raw bytes: you can hash the buffer with {{domxref("SubtleCrypto.digest()")}} to compute a fingerprint (as shown in the example below), or pass it to an X.509 parsing library to inspect individual fields.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To work with them you must process the raw bytes: you can hash the buffer with {{domxref("SubtleCrypto.digest()")}} to compute a fingerprint (as shown in the example below) or pass it to an X.509 parsing library to inspect individual fields.
```

## Example

### Basic usage

This example shows how to fingerprint the remote peer's certificate after the DTLS handshake and compare it against a stored value.

```js
async function getRemoteFingerprint(dtlsTransport) {
  const certs = dtlsTransport.getRemoteCertificates();
  if (certs.length === 0) {
    return null;
  }

  // Hash the raw DER-encoded certificate with SHA-256
  const digest = await crypto.subtle.digest("SHA-256", certs[0]);

  // Format as colon-separated hex, matching the SDP a=fingerprint convention
  return Array.from(new Uint8Array(digest))
    .map((b) => b.toString(16).padStart(2, "0"))
    .join(":");
}

> // Call once DTLS handshake is complete

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
// Call after the DTLS handshake is complete
```
